I designed this website in the browser. You can tell, right?

Constraints are meant to make us creative ... but whenever I
try this lauded technique I invariably end up being forced
into design decisions based on the tools at hand – divs and
background gradients.

I appreciate the benefits of working this way. I really do.
Content- and mobile-first are inherent. I even appreciate some
of the benefits that come with all modern websites looking and
behaving the same.

## Craft

This time last year I was in Japan. In Japan, people dedicate
their lives to becoming masters of their trade.

We visited a traditional knife shop in Osaka, a city that has
a reputation for making the best knives in the world. There
they explained that each knife is made by three people. The
first person shapes a block of steel into a knife-like shape.
The next refines the steel and sharpens the blade. Finally,
the third person makes and fits the handle.

This is what I've spent the last 10 years doing. Learning my
craft. Becoming technically good at making websites. Trying to
make a complex process appear simple in the hands of its new
owner.

## Creativity

Along the way I seem to have lost the creativity I had when I
started. The creativity that comes with the naivety of youth.
Of not knowing any better. Of an art school student making the
most inappropriate of work without a care in the world. Of an
18-year-old footballer who doesn't think twice about
single-handedly taking on four defenders and scoring an
outrageous goal.

The Japanese know about simplicity, and celebrate craft.
However, they are also an introverted nation. One that feels
like a parallel universe moving to its own beat – giving rise
to its incredible creative output.

This is a reminder to be more creative. To start a project
with a pen and paper and to forget about the constraints and
best practice I have learned. To temporarily live in my own
parallel universe of endless possibility.
